
I've now read this book twice. Finally getting around to "reviewing" it.
5 stars, for starters. More to come. Will read book #6 next. I have only
read book #1 and this one. She's brilliant.

The Brutal Telling by Louise Penny

I very much liked this book. My wife has been reading Louise Penny for a
while. A friend loaned her a bunch of her collection. I read The Brutal
Telling and then reread it for bookclub. Through our conversations the
guilt or innocence of Olivier became the main issue. I've since read
book #6 (Bury Your Dead). I strongly encourage you to read this one.

The Brutal Telling is a very complex murder mystery. There are many
players in this story. A "Hermit" is found dead on the floor of the
bistro Olivier and Gabriel run. Who is this man? Who killed him? Why is
the body in the bistro?

Inspector Gimache and the people who work with him interview many, many
residents of Three Pines. Like many mysteries, a reader is lead to
believe just about everybody might have done it! For example, Marc and
Dominique Gilbert are suspect because Marc admits to hauling the body to
the bistro (maybe because it might ruin their spa plans). Peter and
Clara, artists, fight a lot and Peter doesn't want their place searched.
Marc's dad, "Saint Vincent", is identified as the prowler around the
Hermit's cabin. He abandoned his wife long ago but is back now. Why? We
eventually learn he's probably worried his son might be accused of
murder and also that he has done some very good things (Down Syndrome
related).

Early on we get the idea that some very valuable furniture that was
probably stolen from places in Europe is now being kept or sold by
people in Three Pines. The idea that the "Hermit" is from Czechoslovakia
emerges. He and many others are refugees from war-torn Europe.
   
The story becomes one of international scope. I personally feel some of
the things that happen are a bit "contrived." For example, the first
editions of books like Walden and Charlotte's Web in the cabin morph
into a spider web made out of nylon and the word "woe" in the web
collapses into the word "woo" which in turn has something to do with
monkeys. The word "Charlotte" is ciphered by the Hermit and carved into
small wooden poles. After multiple attempts it is deciphered. This leads
us to the Queen Charlotte Islands that are off the coast of British
Columbia. Emily is also ciphered and deciphered and she is revealed to
be the woman who created totem poles that were protesting the
destruction of pristine forests. The Hermit learned how to build his
cabin from his early experience there.

