
my review of Someone Else's Shoes by Jojo Moyes

5 stars, for sure.

This is my second Moyes, my first was Giver of Stars (which I did not
finish). I got this book along with Barbara Kingsolver's Unsheltered for
$2 each from my library. I absolutely loved it. Written in 2023.

It all starts with a "kit bag" mixup at a gym. Samantha Kemp picks up
Nisha Cantor's bag by mistake. The entire book spins a tale of the fancy
shoes that were in this bag as they travel from place to place. It's a
riot!

This is a romance novel (among other things). Several romances actually.
Sam's husband Phil is despondent over the death of his father and their
marriage suffers. Nisha is dumped by Carl for another woman.

The shoes in question are six-inch-high Christian Louboutin red
crocodile shoes. Nisha is used to expensive things, can't stand even
touching stuff worn by those "beneath her." As the story unfolds she is
transformed by the people who come to her aid. Jasmine is a chamber maid
at the best hotel in the area where Nisha and Carl have a penthouse and
recognizes Nisha's plight, lets her sleep at her place and gives her a
job.

The parallel story of Samantha (Sam) gives the book the frequently used
structure of alternating chapters. Phil can't seem to do anything. A
camper he bought sits in the front yard needing a new bumper. He's lost
his job. He eventually gets talked into seeing a psychiatrist and we
learn that the key thing that has brought on his depression involves how
his father died (which I won't reveal). Although most of the book is
very funny and sort of rom comish, the sessions Phil has with Dr. Kovitz
are serious and effective. Cat, their daughter, recognizes the breakdown
that is taking place in her parents' relationship and ends up playing a
key role in trying to repair it. Meanwhile, Sam does all the cooking,
cleaning, shopping etc. while Phil can't get off the couch. She also
keeps trying to return the shoes but for a variety of reasons is
unsuccessful.

The pace picks up big time about 2/3 of the way into the book when Carl
and Nisha finally agree to meet up to finalize their divorce. Carl
reveals himself to be a consummate ass. His strange demand that the
missing shoes be given to him results in a comic series of attempts to
produce them. Why Carl wants the shoes is eventually revealed (sorry, no
spoiler here ...). And not only that but the brainchild of Jas, Sam, and
Nisha of what to do after the papers are signed is just plain perfect!

Oh, how and what causes Phil to mend is awesome.
