
The Theory of Everything
by Lisa Grunwald

I've read this book twice. Very interesting.

I know a bit about the goal of Einstein and others to find a theory that
explains "everything." By this we usually mean what is/are the
"fundamental" "force(s)" that lie "at the heart" of the universe.

My excessive use of double quotes above is driven by the nature of words
themselves. What are the definitions of the words I've quoted? There is
mystery in all of them.

The main character in this 1991 book is Alexander Simon. He is a
physicist and has spent his life trying to come up with such a theory.
He lives with his girlfriend Linda and their relationship is strained.

The book starts with the story of Alexander and his mother Alice. He is
eight years old. They are watching a stationmaster who is waving a
lantern to warn an oncoming train of a washed out bridge. The
stationmaster is run over and killed and the train falls into the river
below. This experience haunts him in dreams throughout his life.

Alice leaves Alexander early on. She is off to places unknown and is a
student of astrology. He hides behind his equations and finally comes up
with a theory that will rock the world. All things "live" in just two
dimensions (not three, not four, not ten) and are "strings." They
measure 10^-23 mm across. He is working for a guy named Biner who is
constantly pushing him to publish.

We learn about several early scientists whose breakthroughs occurred
early in their lives, like his. We also learn what happened after their
discoveries were revealed. Newton went on to study alchemy and the
pyramids. Boltzmann blew his brains out. (I did not know either of these
facts.)

Alexander is close to his dad, Sam. They play chess. Drink Scotch. Talk
about Alice. They correspond frequently.

Alexander befriends a woman named Cleo. She is a palm reader. He ends up
moving out of his place and lives with her. Linda and he become
estranged. Cleo tells him that she and his mother are in constant
contact with each other. He misses his mother terribly and thinks Cleo
will eventually bring Alice back to him. They have sex. She is very
seductive. She's a 22 and so is he. Look it up. Numerology. (I've
actually met a guy years ago who truly believed this stuff.)

Cleo sends him off to live with a guy named Harold in New Jersey. He's
into creating his "Prime Matter" and will teach Alexander how to create
his. This involves digging up dirt, plants, flowers, collecting dew etc.
etc. Mixing the ingredients.

Creating "charts" (based on your time and place of birth and where the
planets were then) is something that Harold and he do.

In other words, Alex is transported into a world completely foreign to
what he is used to, considered bunk by most people. However, much of the
literature he is told to read and the quotes we are shown from it (there
is a sizable bibliography at the back of the book) is thought-provoking.
What is "real" science and what is "junk" science becomes less clear.

Spoiler: It takes a long time but finally Alexander leaves Harold (whom
we learn is needy himself) and finds himself being touched by Linda.
